cumulusci/robotframework/utam/README.md, before:

Hello!

This contains some prototype code for integrating UTAM page objects
with robot. The cornerstone of the code is the UTAM class, which
can read in UTAM page object definitions. The code can be used both
in python as one would expect, and as a robot keyword.

## Using the UTAM class from robot

The following robot code will import the lwc-home page
object (lwc-home.utam.json) and create a keyword named "lwc-home":

```robotframework
*** Settings ***
Library  cumulusci.robotframework.utam.UTAMLibrary

*** Test Cases ***
Example
    import utam  lwc-home
```

The keyword accepts the name of an element as its first argument, and
will return an Element instance (from utam_element.py). For example,
the following robot code shows how to get an instance of the "header"
element:

```robotframework
    ${header}=  lwc-home  header
```

The header element will eventually have all of the methods defined
by the UTAM spec; for now there is only the getText method, which
can be used like so:

```robotframework
Should be equal  ${header.getText()}  Lightning Web Components
```

## Using the UTAM class from python

Even though the UTAM class was designed to work as a keyword library
with a single key, it can also be used in python code just as you
would expect.

The following code creates an instance of the lwc-home page object,
and calls the getText method on the header:

```python
po = UTAM("test-object")
po.getHeader().getText()
```

Commit message:

I'll take "Using utam page objects as locators" for $1000, Alex This was simpler than I thought it would be, though right now it only works for locators that don't take arguments.

cumulusci/robotframework/utam/README.md, after:

Hello!

This contains some prototype code for integrating UTAM page objects
with robot. The cornerstone of the code is the UTAM class, which
can read in UTAM page object definitions. The code can be used both
in python as one would expect, as a robot keyword, and as a custom
location strategy for SeleniumLibrary keywords.

## Using UTAM objects as keywords

The following robot code will import the lwc-home page
object (lwc-home.utam.json) and create a keyword named "lwc-home":

```robotframework
*** Settings ***
Library  cumulusci.robotframework.utam.UTAMLibrary

*** Test Cases ***
Example
    import utam  lwc-home
```

The keyword accepts the name of an element as its first argument, and
will return an Element instance (from utam_element.py). For example,
the following robot code shows how to get an instance of the "header"
element:

```robotframework
    ${header}=  lwc-home  header
```

The header element will eventually have all of the methods defined
by the UTAM spec; for now there is only the getText method, which
can be used like so:

```robotframework
Should be equal  ${header.getText()}  Lightning Web Components
```

## Using UTAM objects as a SeleniumLibrary location strategy

The following shows that we can use the UTAM page object as a location
strategy, so that we can use the locators with UTAM-unaware keywords

```robotframework
Element text should be  lwc-home:header  Lightning Web Components
```

## Using the UTAM class from python

Even though the UTAM class was designed to work as a keyword library
with a single key, it can also be used in python code just as you
would expect.

The following code creates an instance of the lwc-home page object,
and calls the getText method on the header:

```python
po = UTAM("test-object")
po.getHeader().getText()
```
