docs/connected_orgs.rst, before:

Connect Persistent Orgs
=======================

In addition to creating :doc:`scratch orgs <scratch_orgs>` in CumulusCI, you can connect persistent orgs to your project to run tasks and flows on them.
This feature supports use cases such as deploying to a Developer Edition org to release a package version, or installing to a sandbox for user acceptance testing.

.. attention::

    A different setup is required to connect to orgs in the context of an automated build.
    See :doc:`continuous integration <continuous_integration>` for more information.



The ``org connect`` Command
---------------------------

To connect to a persistent org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name>

This command automatically opens a browser window pointed to a Salesforce login page.
The provided ``<org_name>`` is the alias that CumulusCI will assign to the persistent org.

.. note::

    Connecting an org via ``cci org connect`` does *not* expose that org to the Salesforce CLI.

If your org has a custom domain, use the ``--login-url`` option along with the corresponding login url.

.. code-block:: console

    cci org connect <org_name> --login-url https://example.my.domain.salesforce.com


Production and Developer Edition Orgs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
No options are needed for these org types.
Just run the same command you normally would to connect to a persistent org.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name>


Sandboxes
^^^^^^^^^
For sandboxes, pass the ``--sandbox`` flag along with the org name.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name> --sandbox

.. note::
    
    The ``--sandbox`` flag can also be used for connecting a scratch org created externally to CumulusCI.



Verify Your Connected Orgs
--------------------------

Run ``cci org list`` to see your org listed under the "Connected Org" table.
This example output shows a single persistent org connected to CumulusCI with the name ``devhub``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org list

    ┌Scratch Orgs──────────────┬─────────┬──────┬─────────┬──────────────┬────────┐
    │ Name                     │ Default │ Days │ Expired │ Config       │ Domain │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ dev                      │         │ 7    │ X       | dev          │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ feature                  │         │ 1    │ X       | feature      │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ prerelease               │         │ 1    │ X       | prerelease   │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ qa                       │         │ 7    │ X       | qa           │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ release                  │         │ 1    │ X       | release      │        │
    └──────────────────────────┴─────────┴──────┴─────────┴──────────────┴────────┘

    ┌Connected Orgs────┬──────────────────────────────┬────────────┐
    │ Name   │ Default │ Username                     │ Expires    │
    ├────────┼─────────┼──────────────────────────────┼────────────┤
    │ devhub │         │ j.holt@mydomain.devhub       │ Persistent │
    └────────┴─────────┴──────────────────────────────┴────────────┘

Verify a successful connection to the org by logging in.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org browser <org_name>



Global Orgs
-----------
By default, ``cci org connect`` stores the OAuth credentials for connected orgs in a *project-specific* keychain.
Using a project-specific keychain means that an org connected in Project A's directory isn't available when you're working in Project B's directory.

Connect an org and make it available to *all* CumulusCI projects on your computer by passing the ``--global-org`` flag.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name> --global-org



Use a Custom Connected App
----------------------------
CumulusCI uses a preconfigured Connected App to authenticate to Salesforce orgs that use OAuth2.
In most cases this preconfigured app is all you need to authenticate into orgs.
To control the Connected App for specific security or compliance requirements (such as adding a private key to sign a certificate connected with the configuration, or enforcing restrictions on user activity), create your own Connected App and configure CumulusCI to use it when connecting to orgs.

To create a custom Connected App, run the ``connected_app`` task, and then manually `edit its configuration <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_connected_app.htm>`_ to suit your requirements.

.. important::

    Make sure to create the Connected App in a production org!


This command will create a Connected App in the Dev Hub org connected to ``sfdx`` with the label ``cumulusci`` and set it as the ``connected_app`` service in CumulusCI.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run connected_app --label cumulusci --connect true

After the Connected App has been created, verify that it's connected to CumulusCI.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci service list
    +Services--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Name           Description                                                                          Configured |
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | connected_app  A Connected App is required to connect to and run commands against persistent orgs.  ✔          |
    | devhub         Configure which SFDX org to use as a Dev Hub for creating scratch orgs               ✔          |
    | github         Configure connection for github tasks, e.g. Create Release                           ✔          |
    | metaci         Connect with a MetaCI site to run builds of projects from this repository                       |
    | metadeploy     Connect with a MetaDeploy site to publish installers from this repository            ✔          |
    | apextestsdb    Configure connection for ApexTestsDB tasks, e.g. ApextestsdbUpload                              |
    | saucelabs      Configure connection for saucelabs tasks.                                                       |
    +----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

To edit the Connected App's OAuth scopes:

#. In Lightning Experience, go to Setup --> Apps --> Apps Manager.
#. Click the arrow on the far right side of the row that pertains to the newly created Connected App.
#. Click "Edit."
#. Add or remove OAuth scopes as desired.

For a full list of options, run the :ref:`connected_app` task reference documentation.

Commit message:

add --connected-app option to docs

docs/connected_orgs.rst, after:

Connect Persistent Orgs
=======================

In addition to creating :doc:`scratch orgs <scratch_orgs>` in CumulusCI, you can connect persistent orgs to your project to run tasks and flows on them.
This feature supports use cases such as deploying to a Developer Edition org to release a package version, or installing to a sandbox for user acceptance testing.

.. attention::

    A different setup is required to connect to orgs in the context of an automated build.
    See :doc:`continuous integration <continuous_integration>` for more information.



The ``org connect`` Command
---------------------------

To connect to a persistent org:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name>

This command automatically opens a browser window pointed to a Salesforce login page.
The provided ``<org_name>`` is the alias that CumulusCI will assign to the persistent org.

.. note::

    Connecting an org via ``cci org connect`` does *not* expose that org to the Salesforce CLI.

If your org has a custom domain, use the ``--login-url`` option along with the corresponding login url.

.. code-block:: console

    cci org connect <org_name> --login-url https://example.my.domain.salesforce.com


Production and Developer Edition Orgs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
No options are needed for these org types.
Just run the same command you normally would to connect to a persistent org.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name>


Sandboxes
^^^^^^^^^
For sandboxes, pass the ``--sandbox`` flag along with the org name.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name> --sandbox

.. note::
    
    The ``--sandbox`` flag can also be used for connecting a scratch org created externally to CumulusCI.



Verify Your Connected Orgs
--------------------------

Run ``cci org list`` to see your org listed under the "Connected Org" table.
This example output shows a single persistent org connected to CumulusCI with the name ``devhub``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org list

    ┌Scratch Orgs──────────────┬─────────┬──────┬─────────┬──────────────┬────────┐
    │ Name                     │ Default │ Days │ Expired │ Config       │ Domain │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ dev                      │         │ 7    │ X       | dev          │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ feature                  │         │ 1    │ X       | feature      │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ prerelease               │         │ 1    │ X       | prerelease   │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ qa                       │         │ 7    │ X       | qa           │        │
    ├──────────────────────────┼─────────┼──────┼─────────┼──────────────┼────────┤
    │ release                  │         │ 1    │ X       | release      │        │
    └──────────────────────────┴─────────┴──────┴─────────┴──────────────┴────────┘

    ┌Connected Orgs────┬──────────────────────────────┬────────────┐
    │ Name   │ Default │ Username                     │ Expires    │
    ├────────┼─────────┼──────────────────────────────┼────────────┤
    │ devhub │         │ j.holt@mydomain.devhub       │ Persistent │
    └────────┴─────────┴──────────────────────────────┴────────────┘

Verify a successful connection to the org by logging in.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org browser <org_name>



Global Orgs
-----------
By default, ``cci org connect`` stores the OAuth credentials for connected orgs in a *project-specific* keychain.
Using a project-specific keychain means that an org connected in Project A's directory isn't available when you're working in Project B's directory.

Connect an org and make it available to *all* CumulusCI projects on your computer by passing the ``--global-org`` flag.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name> --global-org



Use a Custom Connected App
----------------------------
CumulusCI uses a preconfigured Connected App to authenticate to Salesforce orgs that use OAuth2.
In most cases this preconfigured app is all you need to authenticate into orgs.
To control the Connected App for specific security or compliance requirements (such as adding a private key to sign a certificate connected with the configuration, or enforcing restrictions on user activity), create your own Connected App and configure CumulusCI to use it when connecting to orgs.

To create a custom Connected App, run the ``connected_app`` task, and then manually `edit its configuration <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_connected_app.htm>`_ to suit your requirements.

.. important::

    Make sure to create the Connected App in a production org!

This command will create a Connected App in the Dev Hub org connected to ``sfdx``, and connect it to CumulusCI as a ``connected_app`` service named ``custom``.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run connected_app --label custom --connect true

After running this task, ``cci service list`` should show that the ``custom`` connected_app service exists.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci service list
                                                    Services                                                  
                                                                                                            
    Default   Type              Name         Description                                                     
    ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────── 
    ✔         connected_app     built-in     A Connected App is required to connect to and run commands      
                                             against persistent orgs. See https://cumulusci.readthedocs.io/  
                                             en/latest/connected_orgs.html#use-a-custom-connected-app for    
                                             more info.                                                      
              connected_app     custom       A Connected App is required to connect to and run commands      
                                             against persistent orgs. See https://cumulusci.readthedocs.io/  
                                             en/latest/connected_orgs.html#use-a-custom-connected-app for    
                                             more info.                                                      

Use the ``--connected-app`` option to connect an org using the custom connected app:

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci org connect <org_name> --connected-app custom

To edit the Connected App's OAuth scopes:

#. In Lightning Experience, go to Setup --> Apps --> Apps Manager.
#. Click the arrow on the far right side of the row that pertains to the newly created Connected App.
#. Click "Edit."
#. Add or remove OAuth scopes as desired.

For a full list of options, run the :ref:`connected_app` task reference documentation.
