docs/cumulusci_flow.rst, before:

CumulusCI Flow
==============
CumulusCI Flow is the process that Salesforce.org uses to develop, test, and release our products.
This process encompasses both a development and testing philosophy as well as a specific GitHub branching structure.
There are several key reasons we like using CumulusCI Flow:

* Everything is done in scratch orgs to eliminate "state drift" that occurs over time in persistent orgs. The only persistent org in this process is the packaging org or production org.
* Changes to branches that are being actively developed are thoroughly tested on each commit.
* For managed package projects, a new beta version of the package is created and tested for each commit on a project's ``main`` branch. 
* Auto-merging functionality keeps branches up-to-date with the ``main`` branch.

CumulusCI Flow is implemented in the standard library flows provided by CumulusCI, but the approach to working
with a GitHub repository does not require the use of CumulusCI.

.. image:: images/salesforce-org-process.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Salesforce.org Dev/Release Process Diagram



Project Considerations
----------------------
CumulusCI Flow was designed for use with Salesforce development projects, which inject some unique considerations into finding the right branching model:

* You cannot re-cut a Salesforce first-generation managed package release with the same version as a prior release.
  As a result, Git Tags are the best representation of our releases in a repository since they are
  a read only reference to the exact code we put into a given release.
* Releasing managed packages has some overhead involved including manual checks by release managers to ensure 
  nothing gets permanently locked into the package in a release.
  As a result, true continuous delivery isn't an option.
  Whether you're on a team that wants to deliver quickly (e.g. a two week sprint cycle) or at team that makes
  several larger releases a year, CumulusCI offers functionality to help cut releases for all products with any changes.



Main Builds
-----------
The main goal of the CumulusCI Flow is to always have the main branch ready to release.
This way, we can merge a fix and cut an emergency release at any time in the development process.

To test that we can package main, we upload a beta release on every commit to main and then test that
beta release in a variety of Salesforce org environments concurrently.
A passing build is proof we can package main at any point in time.

When the upload of the beta release is completed, the main branch is :ref:`auto-merged <Auto Merging>` into all open feature branches.
New betas are published on GitHub as a GitHub Release, along with automatically generated release
notes drawn from the content of the Pull Requests merged since the last production release.



CumulusCI and Main Builds
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There are three main flows that facilitate main builds:

* ``ci_master``: Deploys the main branch and all dependencies into the packaging org including
  incrementally deleting any metadata removed since the previous deployment. 
  The end result is to prepare the packaging org to upload a new version.
* ``release_beta``: Uploads a beta release of the code staged in the packaging org, creates a 
  GitHub Tag and Release, generates release notes, adds them to the release, and merges ``main`` into all feature branches.
* ``ci_beta``: Installs the beta and all dependencies into a fresh scratch org and runs the Apex tests.



CumulusCI and Tag Naming
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI Flow uses two different tag prefixes for differentiating 
between beta and production releases of a managed package.
The default prefix values for tags are ``beta/`` and ``release/``.

* Example beta release tag: ``beta/1.2-Beta_3`` 
* Example production release tag: ``release/1.2``

By differentiating beta and release tags, we allow tooling
to query for the latest beta and the latest production release of each repository.

To change the default prefix values see `branch configuration`_.



Feature Branches
----------------
Like GitHub Flow, CumulusCI Flow uses a simple main/feature branch model.
The main branch is the only permanent branch in the repository.
All development work (features and bug fixes) is done in feature branches prefixed with ``feature/``.
All commits on all feature branches are tested concurrently via continuous integration, such as MetaCI or another solution.

Once a developer is done with a feature branch, they create a Pull Request to merge their branch into the main branch.
The Pull Review serves as the container for the following:

* **Code Review**: We use GitHub's built in review functionality for Pull Requests to conduct line by line code reviews
* **Release Notes**: We use the Pull Request body to create release notes content relevant to the PR.
  This content is automatically parsed by CumulusCI's release notes generation task to automatically build cumulative release notes on each release.
* **QA**: The goal of the Pull Request is to serve as a gate blocking a change from going into main 
  until it's ready to release.  As a result, we do QA on the feature before merging the Pull Request.

When a Pull Request is approved and passing build, it is merged using the Merge button in GitHub's web interface.
We use GitHub Protected Branches to enforce both code reviews and passing builds before a Pull Request can be merged to main.

Once the Pull Request is merged, the feature branch is deleted.



Feature Branch Flows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI facilitates working with feature branches (mainly) through two default flows:

* ``dev_org``: Used to deploy the unmanaged code and all dependencies from the feature
  branch into a Salesforce org to create a usable development environment.
* ``ci_feature``: Deploys the unmanaged code and all dependencies into a Salesforce org
  (typically a fresh scratch org) and run the Apex tests. 
  This flow is run by a CI app on new commits to any feature branch.



Release Branches
----------------
Some teams deliver large releases several times a year.
For this type of release cadence, Salesforce.org uses a special type of branch referred to as a release branch.
Release branches are simply a feature branch named with a number.
These long-lived branches are created off of the ``main`` branch, serve as the target branch for all
features associated with that release and are eventually merged back to the ``main`` branch when a release occurs.
To be able to clearly track what work is associated with a specific release, release branches must fulfill these criteria:

* They are the parent branches of *all* feature work associated with a release. 
  That is, all feature branches associated with a release are child branches of the target release branch.
* Release branches use a strict naming format: ``feature/release_num`` where ``release_num`` is a valid integer.

Using the ``feature/`` branch prefix for the release branch names allow those branches to stay in sync with the ``main`` branch.
Like any other feature branch, they participate in CumulusCI's parent-to-child merge operations.
The release number immediately after the ``feature/`` prefix allows CumulusCI to detect and merge changes from one
release branch to other future release branches. See `Release to (Future) Release Merges`_ for more information.

An example of a release branch with two items of work associated with it could look like this:

* ``feature/001``
* ``feature/001__feature1``
* ``feature/001__feature2``



Branch Configuration
--------------------
The name of the main (default) branch, as well as the branch prefixes are configurable in your projects ``cumulusci.yml`` file.
The following shows the default values that CumulusCI comes with:

.. code-block:: yaml

  project:
    git:
      default_branch: main
      prefix_feature: feature/
      prefix_beta: beta/
      prefix_release: release/

These values can be changed to match naming conventions used by your own project.



Auto Merging
------------
CumulusCI Flow helps to keep large diffs and merge conflicts from being the norm. CumulusCI's auto-merge functionality helps teams:

* Keep feature branches up-to-date with the ``main`` branch (main to feature merges)
* Manage long-lived feature branches for larger features worked on by multiple developers (parent to child merges)
* Manage large releases that occur several times a year (release to future release merges).  


Main to Feature Merges 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
One of the bigger differences between CumulusCI Flow and GitHub Flow or git-flow is that
CumulusCI Flow automates the merging of commits to a project's ``main`` branch into all open feature branches.
This auto-merge does a lot for us:

* Ensures feature branches are in sync with the  main branch.
* Re-tests each feature branch with any changes to main since the merge generates a new commit.
* Eliminates merge conflicts when merging a Pull Request to main.

To understand the benefit of auto-merging to feature branches, consider the following scenario:
A developer starts work on a feature branch, puts in a few weeks on it, and then has to leave unexpectedly for a few months.
While they are on leave, their feature branch gets automatically updated with any new commits on main and rebuilt.
A few weeks into their leave, a new commit on main gets merged to their feature branch and breaks the build.
When the developer returns after their leave, they can look at the build history to find which commit from main broke their feature branch.

Without auto-merging, the developer would return, merge main into their feature branch,
and then have to sift through all the commits to main during their leave to figure out which one broke their feature branch.
More testing and build history is always a good thing in addition to the other benefits we gain from auto-merging.

CumulusCI facilitates the auto-merge to feature branches via the ``github_automerge_main`` task, which is included by default in the ``release_beta`` flow.
The ``release_beta`` flow is run, in CumulusCI Flow, on new commits to the ``main`` branch.



Parent to Child Merges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There is sometimes a need for multiple developers to collaborate on different parts of a single larger feature. 
To enable this collaboration CumulusCI expands the concept of auto-merging main-to-feature branches to also 
handle the concept of Parent and Child Feature Branches.

Parent/Child feature branches are created using a simple naming format:

* **Parent**: feature/parent-branch-name
* **Child**: feature/parent-branch-name__child-branch-name

A child branch extends the parent's name with two additional underscores (``__``) and an additional description.

Auto-merging from parent to child branches works as follows:

* Child branches never receive the auto-merge from ``main``
* Parent branches do receive the merge from ``main`` which kicks off a Feature Test build. (This assumes the parent branch is not itself a child.)
* At the end of a successful Feature Test build on a Parent branch, the parent branch is auto-merged into all child branches

This allows us to support multiple developers working on a single large feature while keeping that feature isolated from main until we're ready to release it. 
The parent branch is the branch representing the overall feature.
Each developer can create child branches for individual components of the larger feature.
Their child branch still gets CI builds like all feature branches.
When they are ready to merge from their child branch to the parent branch, they create a Pull Request which gets code reviewed
by other developers working on the parent feature branch and finally merged to the parent branch.

CumulusCI facilitates parent to child auto-merges via the `github_automerge_feature` task, which is included by default in the `ci_feature` flow.
If a parent feature branch passes the build, it is automatically merged into all child branches.

The parent to child merge functionality works across *multiple levels* of branching.
The effects of automerging remains the same, with children only receiving merges from their parents only (e.g. no merges from grandparents)
This allows us to have branching structures such as:

* ``main``
* ``feature/large-feature``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1__work-item1``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1__work-item2``
* ``feature/large-feature__section2``
* ``feature/large-feature__section2__work-item1``

In this scenario, a commit to the ``main`` branch triggers the ``github_automerge_main``
task to run and will automerge that commit into ``feature/large-feature``.
This triggers a build to run against ``feature/large-feature``, and assuming the build passes, runs the ``github_automerge_feature`` task.
This task detects two child branches of ``feature/large-feature``: ``feature/large_feature__section1`` and ``feature/large-feature__section2``.
The task automerges the commit from the parent, into the child branches, and builds begin to run against those branches.
If the build for ``feature/large-feature__section1`` fails, it doest not trigger ``github_automerge_feature`` to merge to its child branches.
This means that despite ``feature/large-feature__section1`` having two child branches, they would not receive automerges until the parent branch tests successfully.



Release to (Future) Release Merges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Because release branches are so long-lived, and so much work goes into them, their diffs can get quite large.
This means headaches are inevitable the day after a major release, and you need to pull down all of the changes from the new release into the next release branch (which has likely been in development for months already).
To alleviate this pain point, CumulusCI can ensure that all release branches propagate commits they receive to other existing release branches that correspond to future releases.

Consider the following branches in a GitHub repository:

* ``main`` - Source of Truth for Production
* ``feature/002`` - The next major production release
* ``feature/002__feature1`` - A single feature associated with release ``002``
* ``feature/002__large_feature`` - A large feature associated with release ``002``
* ``feature/002__large_feature__child1`` - First chunk of work for the large feature
* ``feature/002__large_feature__child2`` - Second chunk of work for the large feature
* ``feature/003`` - The release that comes after ``002``
* ``feature/003__feature1`` - A single feature associated with release ``003``

In this scenario, CumulusCI ensures that when ``feature/002`` receives a commit, that that commit is also merged into ``feature/003``.
This kicks off tests in our CI system and ensures that functionality going into ``feature/002`` doesn't break work being done for future releases.
Once those tests pass, the commit on ``feature/003`` is merged to ``feature/003__feature1`` because they adhere to the parent/child naming convention described above.
Commits **never** propagate in the opposite direction. (A commit to ``feature/002`` would never be merged to ``feature/001`` if it was an existing branch in the GitHub repository).

**Propagating commits to future release branches is turned off by default.** 
If you would like to enable this feature for your GitHub repository, you can set the ``update_future_releases`` option on the ``github_automerge_feature`` task in your ``cumulusci.yml`` file: 

.. code-block:: yaml 

   tasks:
      github_automerge_feature:
      options:
         update_future_releases: True



Orphan Branches
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If you have both a parent and a child branch, and the parent is deleted, this creates an orphaned branch.
Orphaned branches do not receive any auto-merges from any branches.
You can rename an orphaned branch to include the ``feature/`` prefix and contain no double underscores ('__') to begin receiving merges from the main branch again.

If we have a parent and child branch: ``feature/myFeature`` and ``feature/myFeature__child``, and ``feature/myFeature`` (the parent) is deleted, then ``feature/myFeature__child`` would be considered an orphan.
Renaming ``feature/myFeature__child`` to ``feature/child`` will allow the orphan to begin receiving automerges from the main branch.




CumulusCI Flow vs. GitHub Flow
------------------------------
Since CumulusCI Flow is largely an extension of GitHub Flow, the 
differences are mostly additional processes in CumulusCI Flow that
help make it more effective for large-scale Salesforce projects:

* Feature branches must be prefixed feature/ or they don't get built or receive auto-merges.
  This allows developers to have experimental branches that don't get built or merged.
* CumulusCI Flow is focused on an agile release process that works well with the technical constraints of Salesforce packaging..
* CumulusCI Flow requires the beta and release tag naming convention so tooling can use 
  the GitHub API to determine the latest beta and the latest production release.
* CumulusCI Flow utilizes parent/child branch relationships and performs auto-merging of commits between branches, where as GitHub flow does not.



CumulusCI Flow vs git-flow
--------------------------
When our team first started figuring out our development/release process, 
we started where most people do in looking at git-flow.
Unlike both CumulusCI Flow and GitHub Flow, git-flow uses multiple permanent branches to separate development work from releases.
We decided to go with a main/feature branching model instead of git-flow for a few reasons:

* We only cut and release new releases.
  We never patch old releases which makes the complexity of git-flow less necessary.
* git-flow is not natively supported in git or GitHub.
  Using git-flow effectively usually requires extending your git tooling to enforce structure and merging rules for a more complex branching model.
* The main reason for git-flow is to be able to integrate your features together.
  We get this, along with many other benefits, already from auto-merging main to feature branches.
* Feature branches provide better isolation necessary for a rapid, agile release cycle by keeping all features not ready for release out of the release.
  Doing testing in the development branch means you've already integrated your features together.
  If one feature is bad, it is harder to unwind that feature from the development branch than if it were
  still isolated in its feature branch, tested there, and only merged when truly ready.
  Plus, with the auto-merge of main, we get the same integration as a development branch.
* In short, auto-merging and parent/child feature branches in CumulusCI Flow provide
  us everything we would want from git-flow in a simpler branching model.

Commit message:

Add new CumulusCI Flow diagram

docs/cumulusci_flow.rst, after:

CumulusCI Flow
==============
CumulusCI Flow is the process that Salesforce.org uses to develop, test, and release our products.
This process encompasses both a development and testing philosophy as well as a specific GitHub branching structure.
There are several key reasons we like using CumulusCI Flow:

* Everything is done in scratch orgs to eliminate "state drift" that occurs over time in persistent orgs. The only persistent org in this process is the packaging org or production org.
* Changes to branches that are being actively developed are thoroughly tested on each commit.
* For managed package projects, a new beta version of the package is created and tested for each commit on a project's ``main`` branch. 
* Auto-merging functionality keeps branches up-to-date with the ``main`` branch.

CumulusCI Flow is implemented in the standard library flows provided by CumulusCI, but the approach to working
with a GitHub repository does not require the use of CumulusCI.

The diagram below depicts the branch and merge structure of CumulusCI Flow in its fullest form, as applied to a long-running release. The diagram also depicts the use of the Salesforce.org :doc:`Testing with Second-Generation Packaging <2gp_testing>` process. Your practice of CumulusCI Flow might include some or all of these features.

.. image:: images/cumulusci_flow.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: CumulusCI Flow Branching Diagram



Project Considerations
----------------------
CumulusCI Flow was designed for use with Salesforce development projects, which inject some unique considerations into finding the right branching model:

* You cannot re-cut a Salesforce first-generation managed package release with the same version as a prior release.
  As a result, Git Tags are the best representation of our releases in a repository since they are
  a read only reference to the exact code we put into a given release.
* Releasing managed packages has some overhead involved including manual checks by release managers to ensure 
  nothing gets permanently locked into the package in a release.
  As a result, true continuous delivery isn't an option.
  Whether you're on a team that wants to deliver quickly (e.g. a two week sprint cycle) or at team that makes
  several larger releases a year, CumulusCI offers functionality to help cut releases for all products with any changes.



Main Builds
-----------
The main goal of the CumulusCI Flow is to always have the main branch ready to release.
This way, we can merge a fix and cut an emergency release at any time in the development process.

To test that we can package main, we upload a beta release on every commit to main and then test that
beta release in a variety of Salesforce org environments concurrently.
A passing build is proof we can package main at any point in time.

When the upload of the beta release is completed, the main branch is :ref:`auto-merged <Auto Merging>` into all open feature branches.
New betas are published on GitHub as a GitHub Release, along with automatically generated release
notes drawn from the content of the Pull Requests merged since the last production release.



CumulusCI and Main Builds
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There are three main flows that facilitate main builds:

* ``ci_master``: Deploys the main branch and all dependencies into the packaging org including
  incrementally deleting any metadata removed since the previous deployment. 
  The end result is to prepare the packaging org to upload a new version.
* ``release_beta``: Uploads a beta release of the code staged in the packaging org, creates a 
  GitHub Tag and Release, generates release notes, adds them to the release, and merges ``main`` into all feature branches.
* ``ci_beta``: Installs the beta and all dependencies into a fresh scratch org and runs the Apex tests.



CumulusCI and Tag Naming
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI Flow uses two different tag prefixes for differentiating 
between beta and production releases of a managed package.
The default prefix values for tags are ``beta/`` and ``release/``.

* Example beta release tag: ``beta/1.2-Beta_3`` 
* Example production release tag: ``release/1.2``

By differentiating beta and release tags, we allow tooling
to query for the latest beta and the latest production release of each repository.

To change the default prefix values see `branch configuration`_.



Feature Branches
----------------
Like GitHub Flow, CumulusCI Flow uses a simple main/feature branch model.
The main branch is the only permanent branch in the repository.
All development work (features and bug fixes) is done in feature branches prefixed with ``feature/``.
All commits on all feature branches are tested concurrently via continuous integration, such as MetaCI or another solution.

Once a developer is done with a feature branch, they create a Pull Request to merge their branch into the main branch.
The Pull Review serves as the container for the following:

* **Code Review**: We use GitHub's built in review functionality for Pull Requests to conduct line by line code reviews
* **Release Notes**: We use the Pull Request body to create release notes content relevant to the PR.
  This content is automatically parsed by CumulusCI's release notes generation task to automatically build cumulative release notes on each release.
* **QA**: The goal of the Pull Request is to serve as a gate blocking a change from going into main 
  until it's ready to release.  As a result, we do QA on the feature before merging the Pull Request.

When a Pull Request is approved and passing build, it is merged using the Merge button in GitHub's web interface.
We use GitHub Protected Branches to enforce both code reviews and passing builds before a Pull Request can be merged to main.

Once the Pull Request is merged, the feature branch is deleted.



Feature Branch Flows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI facilitates working with feature branches (mainly) through two default flows:

* ``dev_org``: Used to deploy the unmanaged code and all dependencies from the feature
  branch into a Salesforce org to create a usable development environment.
* ``ci_feature``: Deploys the unmanaged code and all dependencies into a Salesforce org
  (typically a fresh scratch org) and run the Apex tests. 
  This flow is run by a CI app on new commits to any feature branch.



Release Branches
----------------
Some teams deliver large releases several times a year.
For this type of release cadence, Salesforce.org uses a special type of branch referred to as a release branch.
Release branches are simply a feature branch named with a number.
These long-lived branches are created off of the ``main`` branch, serve as the target branch for all
features associated with that release and are eventually merged back to the ``main`` branch when a release occurs.
To be able to clearly track what work is associated with a specific release, release branches must fulfill these criteria:

* They are the parent branches of *all* feature work associated with a release. 
  That is, all feature branches associated with a release are child branches of the target release branch.
* Release branches use a strict naming format: ``feature/release_num`` where ``release_num`` is a valid integer.

Using the ``feature/`` branch prefix for the release branch names allow those branches to stay in sync with the ``main`` branch.
Like any other feature branch, they participate in CumulusCI's parent-to-child merge operations.
The release number immediately after the ``feature/`` prefix allows CumulusCI to detect and merge changes from one
release branch to other future release branches. See `Release to (Future) Release Merges`_ for more information.

An example of a release branch with two items of work associated with it could look like this:

* ``feature/001``
* ``feature/001__feature1``
* ``feature/001__feature2``



Branch Configuration
--------------------
The name of the main (default) branch, as well as the branch prefixes are configurable in your projects ``cumulusci.yml`` file.
The following shows the default values that CumulusCI comes with:

.. code-block:: yaml

  project:
    git:
      default_branch: main
      prefix_feature: feature/
      prefix_beta: beta/
      prefix_release: release/

These values can be changed to match naming conventions used by your own project.



Auto Merging
------------
CumulusCI Flow helps to keep large diffs and merge conflicts from being the norm. CumulusCI's auto-merge functionality helps teams:

* Keep feature branches up-to-date with the ``main`` branch (main to feature merges)
* Manage long-lived feature branches for larger features worked on by multiple developers (parent to child merges)
* Manage large releases that occur several times a year (release to future release merges).  


Main to Feature Merges 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
One of the bigger differences between CumulusCI Flow and GitHub Flow or git-flow is that
CumulusCI Flow automates the merging of commits to a project's ``main`` branch into all open feature branches.
This auto-merge does a lot for us:

* Ensures feature branches are in sync with the  main branch.
* Re-tests each feature branch with any changes to main since the merge generates a new commit.
* Eliminates merge conflicts when merging a Pull Request to main.

To understand the benefit of auto-merging to feature branches, consider the following scenario:
A developer starts work on a feature branch, puts in a few weeks on it, and then has to leave unexpectedly for a few months.
While they are on leave, their feature branch gets automatically updated with any new commits on main and rebuilt.
A few weeks into their leave, a new commit on main gets merged to their feature branch and breaks the build.
When the developer returns after their leave, they can look at the build history to find which commit from main broke their feature branch.

Without auto-merging, the developer would return, merge main into their feature branch,
and then have to sift through all the commits to main during their leave to figure out which one broke their feature branch.
More testing and build history is always a good thing in addition to the other benefits we gain from auto-merging.

CumulusCI facilitates the auto-merge to feature branches via the ``github_automerge_main`` task, which is included by default in the ``release_beta`` flow.
The ``release_beta`` flow is run, in CumulusCI Flow, on new commits to the ``main`` branch.



Parent to Child Merges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
There is sometimes a need for multiple developers to collaborate on different parts of a single larger feature. 
To enable this collaboration CumulusCI expands the concept of auto-merging main-to-feature branches to also 
handle the concept of Parent and Child Feature Branches.

Parent/Child feature branches are created using a simple naming format:

* **Parent**: feature/parent-branch-name
* **Child**: feature/parent-branch-name__child-branch-name

A child branch extends the parent's name with two additional underscores (``__``) and an additional description.

Auto-merging from parent to child branches works as follows:

* Child branches never receive the auto-merge from ``main``
* Parent branches do receive the merge from ``main`` which kicks off a Feature Test build. (This assumes the parent branch is not itself a child.)
* At the end of a successful Feature Test build on a Parent branch, the parent branch is auto-merged into all child branches

This allows us to support multiple developers working on a single large feature while keeping that feature isolated from main until we're ready to release it. 
The parent branch is the branch representing the overall feature.
Each developer can create child branches for individual components of the larger feature.
Their child branch still gets CI builds like all feature branches.
When they are ready to merge from their child branch to the parent branch, they create a Pull Request which gets code reviewed
by other developers working on the parent feature branch and finally merged to the parent branch.

CumulusCI facilitates parent to child auto-merges via the `github_automerge_feature` task, which is included by default in the `ci_feature` flow.
If a parent feature branch passes the build, it is automatically merged into all child branches.

The parent to child merge functionality works across *multiple levels* of branching.
The effects of automerging remains the same, with children only receiving merges from their parents only (e.g. no merges from grandparents)
This allows us to have branching structures such as:

* ``main``
* ``feature/large-feature``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1__work-item1``
* ``feature/large-feature__section1__work-item2``
* ``feature/large-feature__section2``
* ``feature/large-feature__section2__work-item1``

In this scenario, a commit to the ``main`` branch triggers the ``github_automerge_main``
task to run and will automerge that commit into ``feature/large-feature``.
This triggers a build to run against ``feature/large-feature``, and assuming the build passes, runs the ``github_automerge_feature`` task.
This task detects two child branches of ``feature/large-feature``: ``feature/large_feature__section1`` and ``feature/large-feature__section2``.
The task automerges the commit from the parent, into the child branches, and builds begin to run against those branches.
If the build for ``feature/large-feature__section1`` fails, it doest not trigger ``github_automerge_feature`` to merge to its child branches.
This means that despite ``feature/large-feature__section1`` having two child branches, they would not receive automerges until the parent branch tests successfully.



Release to (Future) Release Merges
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Because release branches are so long-lived, and so much work goes into them, their diffs can get quite large.
This means headaches are inevitable the day after a major release, and you need to pull down all of the changes from the new release into the next release branch (which has likely been in development for months already).
To alleviate this pain point, CumulusCI can ensure that all release branches propagate commits they receive to other existing release branches that correspond to future releases.

Consider the following branches in a GitHub repository:

* ``main`` - Source of Truth for Production
* ``feature/002`` - The next major production release
* ``feature/002__feature1`` - A single feature associated with release ``002``
* ``feature/002__large_feature`` - A large feature associated with release ``002``
* ``feature/002__large_feature__child1`` - First chunk of work for the large feature
* ``feature/002__large_feature__child2`` - Second chunk of work for the large feature
* ``feature/003`` - The release that comes after ``002``
* ``feature/003__feature1`` - A single feature associated with release ``003``

In this scenario, CumulusCI ensures that when ``feature/002`` receives a commit, that that commit is also merged into ``feature/003``.
This kicks off tests in our CI system and ensures that functionality going into ``feature/002`` doesn't break work being done for future releases.
Once those tests pass, the commit on ``feature/003`` is merged to ``feature/003__feature1`` because they adhere to the parent/child naming convention described above.
Commits **never** propagate in the opposite direction. (A commit to ``feature/002`` would never be merged to ``feature/001`` if it was an existing branch in the GitHub repository).

**Propagating commits to future release branches is turned off by default.** 
If you would like to enable this feature for your GitHub repository, you can set the ``update_future_releases`` option on the ``github_automerge_feature`` task in your ``cumulusci.yml`` file: 

.. code-block:: yaml 

   tasks:
      github_automerge_feature:
      options:
         update_future_releases: True



Orphan Branches
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If you have both a parent and a child branch, and the parent is deleted, this creates an orphaned branch.
Orphaned branches do not receive any auto-merges from any branches.
You can rename an orphaned branch to include the ``feature/`` prefix and contain no double underscores ('__') to begin receiving merges from the main branch again.

If we have a parent and child branch: ``feature/myFeature`` and ``feature/myFeature__child``, and ``feature/myFeature`` (the parent) is deleted, then ``feature/myFeature__child`` would be considered an orphan.
Renaming ``feature/myFeature__child`` to ``feature/child`` will allow the orphan to begin receiving automerges from the main branch.




CumulusCI Flow vs. GitHub Flow
------------------------------
Since CumulusCI Flow is largely an extension of GitHub Flow, the 
differences are mostly additional processes in CumulusCI Flow that
help make it more effective for large-scale Salesforce projects:

* Feature branches must be prefixed feature/ or they don't get built or receive auto-merges.
  This allows developers to have experimental branches that don't get built or merged.
* CumulusCI Flow is focused on an agile release process that works well with the technical constraints of Salesforce packaging..
* CumulusCI Flow requires the beta and release tag naming convention so tooling can use 
  the GitHub API to determine the latest beta and the latest production release.
* CumulusCI Flow utilizes parent/child branch relationships and performs auto-merging of commits between branches, where as GitHub flow does not.



CumulusCI Flow vs git-flow
--------------------------
When our team first started figuring out our development/release process, 
we started where most people do in looking at git-flow.
Unlike both CumulusCI Flow and GitHub Flow, git-flow uses multiple permanent branches to separate development work from releases.
We decided to go with a main/feature branching model instead of git-flow for a few reasons:

* We only cut and release new releases.
  We never patch old releases which makes the complexity of git-flow less necessary.
* git-flow is not natively supported in git or GitHub.
  Using git-flow effectively usually requires extending your git tooling to enforce structure and merging rules for a more complex branching model.
* The main reason for git-flow is to be able to integrate your features together.
  We get this, along with many other benefits, already from auto-merging main to feature branches.
* Feature branches provide better isolation necessary for a rapid, agile release cycle by keeping all features not ready for release out of the release.
  Doing testing in the development branch means you've already integrated your features together.
  If one feature is bad, it is harder to unwind that feature from the development branch than if it were
  still isolated in its feature branch, tested there, and only merged when truly ready.
  Plus, with the auto-merge of main, we get the same integration as a development branch.
* In short, auto-merging and parent/child feature branches in CumulusCI Flow provide
  us everything we would want from git-flow in a simpler branching model.
