docs/env_var_reference.rst, before:

Environment Variables
=====================

CumulusCI has environment variables that are useful when CumulusCI is being run inside of web applications, such as MetaCI, MetaDeploy, and Metecho.
The following is a reference list of available environment variables that can be set.



``CUMULUSCI_AUTO_DETECT``
------------------------- 
Set this environment variable to autodetect branch and commit information from ``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_BRANCH`` and ``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_COMMIT_VERSION`` environment variables.



``CUMULUSCI_DISABLE_REFRESH``
-----------------------------
If present, will instruct CumulusCI to not refresh OAuth tokens for orgs.



``CUMULUSCI_KEY``
-----------------
An alphanumeric string used to encrypt org credentials at rest when an OS keychain is not available.



``CUMULUSCI_REPO_URL``
---------------------- 
Used for specifying a GitHub Repository for CumulusCI to use when running in a CI environment.



``GITHUB_APP_ID``
-----------------
Your GitHub App's identifier.



``GITHUB_APP_KEY``
------------------
Contents of a JSON Web Token (JWT) used to `authenticate a GitHub app <https://developer.github.com/apps/building-github-apps/authenticating-with-github-apps/#authenticating-as-a-github-app>`_.



``GITHUB_TOKEN``
----------------
A GitHub `personal access token <https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>`_.



``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_BRANCH``
--------------------------
Used for specifying a specific branch to test against in a Heroku CI environment



``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_COMMIT_VERSION``
----------------------------------
Used to specify a specific commit to test against in a Heroku CI environment.



``SFDX_CLIENT_ID``
------------------
Client ID for a Connected App used to authenticate to a persistent org, e.g. a Developer Hub. Set with SFDX_HUB_KEY.



``SFDX_HUB_KEY``
----------------    
Contents of JSON Web Token (JWT) used to authenticate to a persistent org, e.g. a Dev Hub.  Set with SFDX_CLIENT_ID.



``SFDX_ORG_CREATE_ARGS``
------------------------
Extra arguments passed to ``sfdx force:org:create``. Can be used to pass key-value pairs.

Commit message:

Add a way to verify certs using system trust stores instead of certifi (#3114)
* Add a way to verify certs using system trust stores instead of certifi

* Only hijack SSLContext when running cumulusci as a CLI

* test coverage

* docs update and dev release

docs/env_var_reference.rst, after:

Environment Variables
=====================

CumulusCI has environment variables that are useful when CumulusCI is being run inside of web applications, such as MetaCI, MetaDeploy, and Metecho.
The following is a reference list of available environment variables that can be set.



``CUMULUSCI_AUTO_DETECT``
------------------------- 
Set this environment variable to autodetect branch and commit information from ``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_BRANCH`` and ``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_COMMIT_VERSION`` environment variables.



``CUMULUSCI_DISABLE_REFRESH``
-----------------------------
If present, will instruct CumulusCI to not refresh OAuth tokens for orgs.



``CUMULUSCI_KEY``
-----------------
An alphanumeric string used to encrypt org credentials at rest when an OS keychain is not available.



``CUMULUSCI_REPO_URL``
---------------------- 
Used for specifying a GitHub Repository for CumulusCI to use when running in a CI environment.


``CUMULUSCI_SYSTEM_CERTS``
--------------------------
If set to ``True``, CumulusCI will configure the Python ``requests`` library to validate server TLS certificates using the system's certificate authorities, instead of the set of CA certs that is bundled with ``requests``.


``GITHUB_APP_ID``
-----------------
Your GitHub App's identifier.



``GITHUB_APP_KEY``
------------------
Contents of a JSON Web Token (JWT) used to `authenticate a GitHub app <https://developer.github.com/apps/building-github-apps/authenticating-with-github-apps/#authenticating-as-a-github-app>`_.



``GITHUB_TOKEN``
----------------
A GitHub `personal access token <https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>`_.



``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_BRANCH``
--------------------------
Used for specifying a specific branch to test against in a Heroku CI environment



``HEROKU_TEST_RUN_COMMIT_VERSION``
----------------------------------
Used to specify a specific commit to test against in a Heroku CI environment.



``SFDX_CLIENT_ID``
------------------
Client ID for a Connected App used to authenticate to a persistent org, e.g. a Developer Hub. Set with SFDX_HUB_KEY.



``SFDX_HUB_KEY``
----------------    
Contents of JSON Web Token (JWT) used to authenticate to a persistent org, e.g. a Dev Hub.  Set with SFDX_CLIENT_ID.



``SFDX_ORG_CREATE_ARGS``
------------------------
Extra arguments passed to ``sfdx force:org:create``. Can be used to pass key-value pairs.
