docs/github_actions.rst, before:

Run CumulusCI from Github Actions
=================================
In order to follow along, you should already have a repository that is
hosted on GitHub and configured as a CumulusCI project. In other words,
we're assuming your project already has a ``cumulusci.yml`` and that you are
successfully running CumulusCI flows locally.

There is also a `template repository <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo>`_ that is
setup to run :ref:`CumulusCI Flow` with GitHub actions. This repository can be used as a starting
point for implementing your own project or as a reference for the following material.

.. note::
   GitHub Actions are free for open source (public) repositories.
   Check with GitHub about pricing for private repositories.



Create a GitHub Action Workflow
-------------------------------
In GitHub Actions, you can define *workflows* which run 
automatically in response to events in the repository.
We're going to create an action called ``Apex Tests`` 
which runs whenever commits are pushed to a target GitHub repository.

Workflows are defined using files in YAML format in the
``.github/workflows`` folder within the repository. To set up the Apex
Tests workflow, use your editor to create a file named
``apex_tests.yml`` in this folder and add the following contents:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: Apex Tests

   on: [push]

   env:
     CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github: ${{ secrets.CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github }}

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: "Run Apex tests"
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
       - uses: actions/checkout@v2
       - name: Install Salesforce CLI
         run: |
           mkdir sfdx
           wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
           echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
       - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
         run: |
           echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
           sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
       - name: Set up Python
         uses: actions/setup-python@v1
         with:
           python-version: "3.8"
       - name: Install CumulusCI
         run: |
           python -m pip install -U pip
           pip install cumulusci
       - run: |
           cci flow run ci_feature --org dev --delete-org

This workflow defines a *job* named ``Run Apex Tests`` which will run
these steps in the CI environment after any commits are pushed:

#.  Check out the repository at the commit that was pushed
#.  Install the Salesforce CLI and authorize a Dev Hub user
#.  Install Python 3.8 and CumulusCI
#.  Run the ``ci_feature`` flow in CumulusCI in the ``dev`` scratch org,
    and then delete the org. The ``ci_feature`` flow deploys the package
    and then runs its Apex tests.



Configure Secrets
-----------------
You may have noticed that the workflow refers to a couple of "secrets":
``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` and ``SFDX_AUTH_URL``. You need to add
these secrets to the repository settings before you can use this
workflow.

To find the settings for Secrets, open your repository in GitHub. Click
the Settings tab. Then click the Secrets link on the left.



``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI may need access to the GitHub API in order to do things like
look up information about dependency packages. To set this up, we'll set
a secret to configure the CumulusCI github service.

First, follow GitHub's instructions to `create a Personal Access Token
<https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>`_.

Now, in your repository's Secrets settings, click the "Add a new secret"
link. Enter ``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` as the Name of the secret. For
the Value, enter the following JSON:

.. code-block:: json

   {"username": "USERNAME", "password": "TOKEN", "email": "EMAIL"}

Click the "Add secret" button to save the secret.

Replace ``USERNAME`` with your GitHub username, ``TOKEN`` with the Personal
Access Token you just created, and ``EMAIL`` with your email address.

.. note::
  
  For more information on registering services in a headless environment
  see the :ref:`Register Services` section of the docs.



``SFDX_AUTH_URL``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI needs to be able to access a Salesforce org with the Dev Hub feature enabled in order to create scratch orgs.
The easiest way to do this is to set up this connection locally, then copy its SFDX auth URL to a secret on GitHub.

Since you already have CumulusCI working locally, you should be able to run ``sfdx force:org:list`` to identify the
username that is configured as the default Dev Hub username (it is marked with ``(D)``).

Now run ``sfdx force:org:display --verbose -u [username]``, replacing ``[username]`` with your Dev Hub username.
Look for the ``Sfdx Auth Url`` and copy it.

.. attention::

   Treat this URL like a password. It provides access to log in as this user!

Now in your repository's Secrets settings, click the 'Add a new secret' link.
Enter ``SFDX_AUTH_URL`` as the Name of the secret, and the URL from above as the Value.
Click the 'Add secret' button to save the secret.

.. admonition:: Advanced Note

   These instructions connect ``sfdx`` to your Dev Hub using
   the standard Salesforce CLI Connected App and a refresh token. It is
   also possible to authenticate ``sfdx`` using the ``force:auth:jwt:grant``
   command with a custom Connected App client id and private key.

Your Secrets should look like this:

.. image:: images/github_secrets.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing the CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github and SFDX_AUTH_URL secrets



Test the Workflow
-----------------
Now you should be able to try out the workflow.
Commit the new ``.github/workflows/apex_tests.yml`` file to the repository and push the commit to GitHub.
You should be able to watch the status of this workflow in the repository's Actions tab:

.. image:: images/github_workflow.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing a running GitHub Action workflow

If you open a pull request for a branch that includes the workflow, you will find a section at the bottom of the pull request that shows the results of the checks that were performed by the workflow:

.. image:: images/github_checks.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing a successful check on a GitHub pull request

It is possible to configure the repository's main branch as a *protected branch* so that changes can only be merged to it if these checks are passing.

See GitHub's documentation for instructions to `configure protected branches <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/configuring-protected-branches>`_ and `enable required status checks <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/enabling-required-status-checks>`_.



Run Headless Browser Tests
--------------------------
It is possible to run Robot Framework tests that control a real browser
as long as the CI environment has the necessary software installed. For
Chrome, it must have Chrome and chromedriver. For Firefox, it must have
Firefox and geckodriver.

Fortunately GitHub Actions comes preconfigured with an image that
includes these browsers. However it is necessary to run the browser in
headless mode. When using CumulusCI's ``robot`` task, this can be done
by passing the ``-o vars BROWSER:headlesschrome`` option.

Here is a complete workflow to run Robot Framework tests for any commit:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: Robot Tests

   on: [push]

   env:
     CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github: ${{ secrets.CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github }}

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: "Run Robot Framework tests"
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
       - uses: actions/checkout@v2
       - name: Install Salesforce CLI
         run: |
           mkdir sfdx
           wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
           echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
       - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
         run: |
           echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
           sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
       - name: Set up Python
         uses: actions/setup-python@v1
         with:
           python-version: "3.8"
       - name: Install CumulusCI
         run: |
           python -m pip install -U pip
           pip install cumulusci
       - run: |
           cci task run robot --org dev -o vars BROWSER:headlesschrome
       - name: Store robot results
         uses: actions/upload-artifact@v1
         with:
           name: robot
           path: robot/CumulusCI-Test/results
       - name: Delete scratch org
         if: always()
         run: |
           cci org scratch_delete dev



Deploy to a Persistent Org
--------------------------
.. note::
  
  For instructions on setting up a connection to a persistent org in a headless environment
  see the :ref:`Register Persistent Orgs` section of the docs.

The final step in a CI pipeline is often deploying newly-verified changes into a production environment.
In the context of a Salesforce project, this could mean a couple of different things.
It could mean that you want to deploy changes in a managed package project into a packaging org.
It could also mean that you want to deploy changes in a project to a production org.

The following sections cover which tasks and flows you would want to consider based on your project's
particular needs.



Deploy to a Packaging Org
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When working on a managed package project, there are two standard library flows that are generally of 
interest when deploying to a packaging org: ``deploy_packaging`` and ``ci_master``.

The ``deploy_packaging`` flow deploys the package's metadata to the packaging org.

The ``ci_master`` flow includes the ``deploy_packaging`` flow, but also takes care of:

#. Updating any dependencies in the packaging org
#. Deploying any unpackaged Metadata under ``unpackaged/pre``
#. Sets up the ``System Administrator`` profile with full FLS permissions on all objects/fields.


Deploy to a Production Org
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Deployments to a Production org environment will typically want to utilize either
the  ``deploy_unmanaged`` flow or the ``deploy`` task. 

In most cases, ``deploy_unmanaged`` will have the desired outcome. This will deploy metadata, but also unschedule Scheduled Apex and uninstall previously-deployed components that have been removed from the source repository. If you do not want incremental component removal or Apex unscheduling, use the ``deploy`` task.


Build Managed Package Versions
------------------------------
Once new metadata has been added to the packaging org, it is often desirable to create a new beta version for your managed package so that it can be tested.
We can use the ``release_beta`` flow to accomplish this.
The following shows a snippet from the `main <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/main/.github/workflows/main.yml>` workflow
in our demo repository. 

.. code-block:: yaml

  release_beta:
    name: "Upload Managed Beta"
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: deploy_packaging
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Install Salesforce CLI
        run: |
          mkdir sfdx
          wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
          echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
      - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
        run: |
         echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
         sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v1
        with:
          python-version: "3.8"
      - name: Install CumulusCI
        run: |
          python -m pip install -U pip
          pip install cumulusci
      - run: |
          cci flow run release_beta --org packaging

After installing ``sfdx``, Python, and CumulusCI, the workflow executes the ``release_beta`` flow against the packaging org.
This flow does several things:

* Uploads a new Beta Version of the package in the packaging org
* Creates a GitHub release for the beta version
* Generates sample release notes for the beta version
* Merges the latest commit on the main branch into all open feature branches
  
.. important::

  CumulusCI is able to connect to the  ``packaging`` org via ``CUMULUSCI_ORG_packaging`` 
  environment variable defined at the `top of the workflow <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/404c5114dac8afd3747963d5abf63be774e61757/.github/workflows/main.yml#L11>`_.



References
----------

- `GitHub Actions Documentation <https://help.github.com/en/actions>`_

Commit message:

keep opening sentence in github_actions.rst

docs/github_actions.rst, after:

Run CumulusCI from Github Actions
=================================
CumulusCI can be used to run continuous integration builds with GitHub Actions.
In order to follow along, you should already have a repository that is
hosted on GitHub and configured as a CumulusCI project. In other words,
we're assuming your project already has a ``cumulusci.yml`` and that you are
successfully running CumulusCI flows locally.

There is also a `template repository <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo>`_ that is
setup to run :ref:`CumulusCI Flow` with GitHub actions. This repository can be used as a starting
point for implementing your own project or as a reference for the following material.

.. note::
   GitHub Actions are free for open source (public) repositories.
   Check with GitHub about pricing for private repositories.



Create a GitHub Action Workflow
-------------------------------
In GitHub Actions, you can define *workflows* which run 
automatically in response to events in the repository.
We're going to create an action called ``Apex Tests`` 
which runs whenever commits are pushed to a target GitHub repository.

Workflows are defined using files in YAML format in the
``.github/workflows`` folder within the repository. To set up the Apex
Tests workflow, use your editor to create a file named
``apex_tests.yml`` in this folder and add the following contents:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: Apex Tests

   on: [push]

   env:
     CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github: ${{ secrets.CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github }}

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: "Run Apex tests"
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
       - uses: actions/checkout@v2
       - name: Install Salesforce CLI
         run: |
           mkdir sfdx
           wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
           echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
       - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
         run: |
           echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
           sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
       - name: Set up Python
         uses: actions/setup-python@v1
         with:
           python-version: "3.8"
       - name: Install CumulusCI
         run: |
           python -m pip install -U pip
           pip install cumulusci
       - run: |
           cci flow run ci_feature --org dev --delete-org

This workflow defines a *job* named ``Run Apex Tests`` which will run
these steps in the CI environment after any commits are pushed:

#.  Check out the repository at the commit that was pushed
#.  Install the Salesforce CLI and authorize a Dev Hub user
#.  Install Python 3.8 and CumulusCI
#.  Run the ``ci_feature`` flow in CumulusCI in the ``dev`` scratch org,
    and then delete the org. The ``ci_feature`` flow deploys the package
    and then runs its Apex tests.



Configure Secrets
-----------------
You may have noticed that the workflow refers to a couple of "secrets":
``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` and ``SFDX_AUTH_URL``. You need to add
these secrets to the repository settings before you can use this
workflow.

To find the settings for Secrets, open your repository in GitHub. Click
the Settings tab. Then click the Secrets link on the left.



``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI may need access to the GitHub API in order to do things like
look up information about dependency packages. To set this up, we'll set
a secret to configure the CumulusCI github service.

First, follow GitHub's instructions to `create a Personal Access Token
<https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line>`_.

Now, in your repository's Secrets settings, click the "Add a new secret"
link. Enter ``CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github`` as the Name of the secret. For
the Value, enter the following JSON:

.. code-block:: json

   {"username": "USERNAME", "password": "TOKEN", "email": "EMAIL"}

Click the "Add secret" button to save the secret.

Replace ``USERNAME`` with your GitHub username, ``TOKEN`` with the Personal
Access Token you just created, and ``EMAIL`` with your email address.

.. note::
  
  For more information on registering services in a headless environment
  see the :ref:`Register Services` section of the docs.



``SFDX_AUTH_URL``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
CumulusCI needs to be able to access a Salesforce org with the Dev Hub feature enabled in order to create scratch orgs.
The easiest way to do this is to set up this connection locally, then copy its SFDX auth URL to a secret on GitHub.

Since you already have CumulusCI working locally, you should be able to run ``sfdx force:org:list`` to identify the
username that is configured as the default Dev Hub username (it is marked with ``(D)``).

Now run ``sfdx force:org:display --verbose -u [username]``, replacing ``[username]`` with your Dev Hub username.
Look for the ``Sfdx Auth Url`` and copy it.

.. attention::

   Treat this URL like a password. It provides access to log in as this user!

Now in your repository's Secrets settings, click the 'Add a new secret' link.
Enter ``SFDX_AUTH_URL`` as the Name of the secret, and the URL from above as the Value.
Click the 'Add secret' button to save the secret.

.. admonition:: Advanced Note

   These instructions connect ``sfdx`` to your Dev Hub using
   the standard Salesforce CLI Connected App and a refresh token. It is
   also possible to authenticate ``sfdx`` using the ``force:auth:jwt:grant``
   command with a custom Connected App client id and private key.

Your Secrets should look like this:

.. image:: images/github_secrets.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing the CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github and SFDX_AUTH_URL secrets



Test the Workflow
-----------------
Now you should be able to try out the workflow.
Commit the new ``.github/workflows/apex_tests.yml`` file to the repository and push the commit to GitHub.
You should be able to watch the status of this workflow in the repository's Actions tab:

.. image:: images/github_workflow.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing a running GitHub Action workflow

If you open a pull request for a branch that includes the workflow, you will find a section at the bottom of the pull request that shows the results of the checks that were performed by the workflow:

.. image:: images/github_checks.png
   :alt: Screenshot showing a successful check on a GitHub pull request

It is possible to configure the repository's main branch as a *protected branch* so that changes can only be merged to it if these checks are passing.

See GitHub's documentation for instructions to `configure protected branches <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/configuring-protected-branches>`_ and `enable required status checks <https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/enabling-required-status-checks>`_.



Run Headless Browser Tests
--------------------------
It is possible to run Robot Framework tests that control a real browser
as long as the CI environment has the necessary software installed. For
Chrome, it must have Chrome and chromedriver. For Firefox, it must have
Firefox and geckodriver.

Fortunately GitHub Actions comes preconfigured with an image that
includes these browsers. However it is necessary to run the browser in
headless mode. When using CumulusCI's ``robot`` task, this can be done
by passing the ``-o vars BROWSER:headlesschrome`` option.

Here is a complete workflow to run Robot Framework tests for any commit:

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: Robot Tests

   on: [push]

   env:
     CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github: ${{ secrets.CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github }}

   jobs:
     unit_tests:
       name: "Run Robot Framework tests"
       runs-on: ubuntu-latest
       steps:
       - uses: actions/checkout@v2
       - name: Install Salesforce CLI
         run: |
           mkdir sfdx
           wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
           echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
       - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
         run: |
           echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
           sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
       - name: Set up Python
         uses: actions/setup-python@v1
         with:
           python-version: "3.8"
       - name: Install CumulusCI
         run: |
           python -m pip install -U pip
           pip install cumulusci
       - run: |
           cci task run robot --org dev -o vars BROWSER:headlesschrome
       - name: Store robot results
         uses: actions/upload-artifact@v1
         with:
           name: robot
           path: robot/CumulusCI-Test/results
       - name: Delete scratch org
         if: always()
         run: |
           cci org scratch_delete dev



Deploy to a Persistent Org
--------------------------
.. note::
  
  For instructions on setting up a connection to a persistent org in a headless environment
  see the :ref:`Register Persistent Orgs` section of the docs.

The final step in a CI pipeline is often deploying newly-verified changes into a production environment.
In the context of a Salesforce project, this could mean a couple of different things.
It could mean that you want to deploy changes in a managed package project into a packaging org.
It could also mean that you want to deploy changes in a project to a production org.

The following sections cover which tasks and flows you would want to consider based on your project's
particular needs.



Deploy to a Packaging Org
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When working on a managed package project, there are two standard library flows that are generally of 
interest when deploying to a packaging org: ``deploy_packaging`` and ``ci_master``.

The ``deploy_packaging`` flow deploys the package's metadata to the packaging org.

The ``ci_master`` flow includes the ``deploy_packaging`` flow, but also takes care of:

#. Updating any dependencies in the packaging org
#. Deploying any unpackaged Metadata under ``unpackaged/pre``
#. Sets up the ``System Administrator`` profile with full FLS permissions on all objects/fields.


Deploy to a Production Org
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Deployments to a Production org environment will typically want to utilize either
the  ``deploy_unmanaged`` flow or the ``deploy`` task. 

In most cases, ``deploy_unmanaged`` will have the desired outcome. This will deploy metadata, but also unschedule Scheduled Apex and uninstall previously-deployed components that have been removed from the source repository. If you do not want incremental component removal or Apex unscheduling, use the ``deploy`` task.


Build Managed Package Versions
------------------------------
Once new metadata has been added to the packaging org, it is often desirable to create a new beta version for your managed package so that it can be tested.
We can use the ``release_beta`` flow to accomplish this.
The following shows a snippet from the `main <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/main/.github/workflows/main.yml>` workflow
in our demo repository. 

.. code-block:: yaml

  release_beta:
    name: "Upload Managed Beta"
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    needs: deploy_packaging
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Install Salesforce CLI
        run: |
          mkdir sfdx
          wget -qO- https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx/channels/stable/sfdx-linux-x64.tar.xz | tar xJ -C sfdx --strip-components 1
          echo $(realpath sfdx/bin) >> $GITHUB_PATH
      - name: Authenticate Dev Hub
        run: |
         echo ${{ secrets.SFDX_AUTH_URL }} > sfdx_auth
         sfdx force:auth:sfdxurl:store -f sfdx_auth -d
      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@v1
        with:
          python-version: "3.8"
      - name: Install CumulusCI
        run: |
          python -m pip install -U pip
          pip install cumulusci
      - run: |
          cci flow run release_beta --org packaging

After installing ``sfdx``, Python, and CumulusCI, the workflow executes the ``release_beta`` flow against the packaging org.
This flow does several things:

* Uploads a new Beta Version of the package in the packaging org
* Creates a GitHub release for the beta version
* Generates sample release notes for the beta version
* Merges the latest commit on the main branch into all open feature branches
  
.. important::

  CumulusCI is able to connect to the  ``packaging`` org via ``CUMULUSCI_ORG_packaging`` 
  environment variable defined at the `top of the workflow <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/404c5114dac8afd3747963d5abf63be774e61757/.github/workflows/main.yml#L11>`_.



References
----------

- `GitHub Actions Documentation <https://help.github.com/en/actions>`_
