docs/headless.md, before:

# Run CumulusCI Headlessly

CumulusCI can be used to run continuous integration builds in your CI
system.

This section outlines how to setup services and orgs that can be defined
in a particular environment such that they will be recognized by
CumulusCI.

(register-environment-services)=

## Register Environment Services

It is often the case that services you use for local development will
differ from the services that you want to use in your build system. For
example, developers will setup a GitHub service locally that is
associated with their GitHub User, while an integration build may want
to run as an integration user when interacting with GitHub. By providing
environment variables with specific prefixes, CumulusCI can detect and
register those services for use when running tasks and flows.

### Name Environment Services

Environment variables that define CumulusCI services adhere to the
following format:

```console
CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_<service_type>[__service_name]
```

All services should start with the prefix `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_` followed
immediately by the `service_type` (for a full list of available services
run `cci service list`). Additionally, you have the option to provide a
unique name for your service by adding a double underscore (`__`)
followed by the name you wish to use. If a name is specified it is
prepended with "env-" to help establish that this service is coming
from the environment. If a name is not specified, a defualt name of
`env` is used for that service.

Here are some examples of environment variable names along with their
corresponding service types and names:

-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github` --\> A `github` service that will have
    the default name of `env`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github__integration-user` --\> A `github`
    service that will have the name `env-integration-user`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_connected_app` --\> A `connected_app` service
    with the default name of `env`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_connected_app__sandbox` --\> A `connected_app`
    service with the name `env-sandbox`

By always prepending `env` to the names of services
specified by environment variables, it is easy to see which services are
currently set by environment variables and which are not.

### Environment Service Config Values

The value of the environment variables (i.e. everything that comes after
the `=` character) are provided in the form of a JSON string. The
following shows an example that defines a github service via an
environment variable:

```console
CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github='{"username": "jdoe", "email": "jane.doe@some.biz", "token": "<personal_access_token>"}'
```

These values provide CumulusCI with the required attributes for a
particular service. The easiest way to find what attributes are needed
for a particular service is to look for your service under the [services
tag in the CumulusCI standard
library](https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/blob/34533b4a1caa3f1850c64e223ece26069c83b60e/cumulusci/cumulusci.yml#L1164)
and provide values for all "attributes" listed under the desired
service. You can also use `cci service info` to get the values from a
service you've configured locally.

For example, if you're looking to register a `connected_app` service,
then the attributes: `callback_url`, `client_id`, and `client_secret`
would need to be provided in the following format:

```json
"{"callback_url": "<callback_url>", "client_id": "<client_id>", "client_secret": "<client_secret>"}"
```

> The values `<callback_url>`, `<client_id>`, and `<client_secret>`
> should all be replaced with actual values.

(register-persistent-orgs)=

## Register Persistent Orgs

Certain builds may require working with one or more persistent orgs.
Using the JWT flow for authentication is the recommended approach when
running CumulusCI headlessly for continuous integration with an existing
org.

First, you need a Connected App that is configured with a certificate in
the "Use digital signatures" setting in its OAuth settings. You can
follow the Salesforce DX Developer Guide to get this set up:

-   [Create a private key and self-signed
    certificate](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_key_and_cert.htm)
-   [Create a Connected
    App](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_connected_app.htm)
-   In addition to the OAuth scopes mentioned in that article, CumulusCI
    also requires the `full` scope.

Once you have a Connected App created, you can configure CumulusCI to
use this Connected App to login to a persistent org by setting the
following environment variables.

-   `CUMULUSCI_ORG_orgName`
-   `SFDX_CLIENT_ID`
-   `SFDX_HUB_KEY`

See the below entries for the values to use with each.

```{important}
Setting the above environment variables negates the need to use the
`cci org connect` command. You can simply run a `cci` command and pass
the `--org orgName` option, where `orgName` corresponds to the name used
in the `CUMULUSCI_ORG_*` environment variable.
```

In the context of GitHub Actions, all of these environment variables
would be declared under the `env` section of a workflow. Below is an
example of what this would look like:

```yaml
env:
    CUMULUSCI_ORG_sandbox:
        {
            "username": "just.in@salesforce.org",
            "instance_url": "https://sfdo--sbxname.my.salesforce.com",
        }
    SFDX_CLIENT_ID: { { $secrets.client_id } }
    SFDX_HUB_KEY: { { $secrets.server_key } }
```

The above assumes that you have `client_id` and `server_key` setup in
your GitHub [encrypted
secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets)

Note that the value of the `server_key` environment variable is the
content of the file `server.key`, which was created as part of your
Connected App setup. The key is in PEM format.

#### `CUMULUSCI_ORG_orgName`

The name of this environment variable defines what name to use for the
value of the `--org` option. For example, a value of
`CUMULUSCI_ORG_mySandbox` would mean you use `--org mySandbox` to use
this org in a `cci` command.

Set this variable equal to the following json string:

```JSON
{
    "username": "USERNAME",
    "instance_url": "INSTANCE_URL"
}
```

-   `USERNAME` - The username of the user who will login to the target
    org.
-   `INSTANCE_URL` - The instance URL for the org. Should begin with the
    `https://` schema.

You can see an example of setting this environment variable in a GitHub
actions workflow in our [demo
repository](https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/404c5114dac8afd3747963d5abf63be774e61757/.github/workflows/main.yml#L11).

```{admonition} Wizard Note
If the target org's instance URL is instanceless (i.e. does not contain
a segment like cs46 identifying the instance), then for sandboxes it is
also necessary to set `SFDX_AUDIENCE_URL` to
`https://test.salesforce.com"`. This instructs CumulusCI to set the
correct `aud` value in the JWT (which is normally determined from the
instance URL).
```

#### `SFDX_CLIENT_ID`

Set this to your Connected App's client id. This, combined with the
`SFDX_HUB_KEY` variable instructs CumulusCI to authenticate to the org
using the [JWT Bearer
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow.htm##sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow)
instead of the [Web Server
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_web_flow.htm##!).

#### `SFDX_HUB_KEY`

Set this to the private key associated with your Connected App (this is
the contents of your `server.key` file). This combined with the
`SFDX_CLIENT_ID` variable instructs CumulusCI to authenticate to the org
using the [JWT Bearer
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow.htm##sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow)
instead of the [Web Server
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_web_flow.htm##!).

## Multiple Services of the Same Type

In rare cases a build may need to utilize multiple services of the same
type. To set a specific service as the default for subsequent
tasks/flows run the `cci service default <service_type> <name>` command.
You can run this command again to set a new default service to be used
for the given service type.

Commit message:

Rewrite documentation for GitHub Actions framework

docs/headless.md, after:

# Run CumulusCI Headlessly

CumulusCI can be used to run continuous integration builds in your CI
system.

This section outlines how to setup services and orgs that can be defined
in a particular environment such that they will be recognized by
CumulusCI.

If you're working in GitHub Actions, you can take advantage of our
[GitHub Actions framework](github-actions) to streamline your setup
process. You'll need the information in this document only if you wish
to use an alternate authorization strategy or configure additional
services.

(register-environment-services)=

## Register Environment Services

It is often the case that services you use for local development will
differ from the services that you want to use in your build system. For
example, developers will setup a GitHub service locally that is
associated with their GitHub User, while an integration build may want
to run as an integration user when interacting with GitHub. By providing
environment variables with specific prefixes, CumulusCI can detect and
register those services for use when running tasks and flows.

### Name Environment Services

Environment variables that define CumulusCI services adhere to the
following format:

```console
CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_<service_type>[__service_name]
```

All services should start with the prefix `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_` followed
immediately by the `service_type` (for a full list of available services
run `cci service list`). Additionally, you have the option to provide a
unique name for your service by adding a double underscore (`__`)
followed by the name you wish to use. If a name is specified it is
prepended with "env-" to help establish that this service is coming
from the environment. If a name is not specified, a defualt name of
`env` is used for that service.

Here are some examples of environment variable names along with their
corresponding service types and names:

-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github` --\> A `github` service that will have
    the default name of `env`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github__integration-user` --\> A `github`
    service that will have the name `env-integration-user`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_connected_app` --\> A `connected_app` service
    with the default name of `env`
-   `CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_connected_app__sandbox` --\> A `connected_app`
    service with the name `env-sandbox`

By always prepending `env` to the names of services
specified by environment variables, it is easy to see which services are
currently set by environment variables and which are not.

### Environment Service Config Values

The value of the environment variables (i.e. everything that comes after
the `=` character) are provided in the form of a JSON string. The
following shows an example that defines a github service via an
environment variable:

```console
CUMULUSCI_SERVICE_github='{"username": "jdoe", "email": "jane.doe@some.biz", "token": "<personal_access_token>"}'
```

These values provide CumulusCI with the required attributes for a
particular service. The easiest way to find what attributes are needed
for a particular service is to look for your service under the [services
tag in the CumulusCI standard
library](https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/blob/34533b4a1caa3f1850c64e223ece26069c83b60e/cumulusci/cumulusci.yml#L1164)
and provide values for all "attributes" listed under the desired
service. You can also use `cci service info` to get the values from a
service you've configured locally.

For example, if you're looking to register a `connected_app` service,
then the attributes: `callback_url`, `client_id`, and `client_secret`
would need to be provided in the following format:

```json
"{"callback_url": "<callback_url>", "client_id": "<client_id>", "client_secret": "<client_secret>"}"
```

> The values `<callback_url>`, `<client_id>`, and `<client_secret>`
> should all be replaced with actual values.

(register-persistent-orgs)=

## Register Persistent Orgs

### SFDX Auth URL Authorization

CumulusCI can import persistent org authorization from the SFDX CLI.
This capability allows you to store the SFDX auth URL for an org in
your CI system's secret storage, import it into the SFDX keychain,
and then use it directly from CumulusCI.

To do so, follow these steps.

1. Retrieve your auth URL.
1. Authorize the org using `sfdx auth:sfdxurl:store`.
1. Run `cci org import <org name> <org name>`.

### JWT Flow Authorization

Using JWT authorization provides you with the greatest control over access
to your persistent org. This approach uses a Connected App and digital certificate,
which you control and can rotate as desired.

First, you need a Connected App that is configured with a certificate in
the "Use digital signatures" setting in its OAuth settings. You can
follow the Salesforce DX Developer Guide to get this set up:

-   [Create a private key and self-signed
    certificate](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_key_and_cert.htm)
-   [Create a Connected
    App](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_connected_app.htm)
-   In addition to the OAuth scopes mentioned in that article, CumulusCI
    also requires the `full` scope.

Once you have a Connected App created, you can configure CumulusCI to
use this Connected App to login to a persistent org by setting the
following environment variables.

-   `CUMULUSCI_ORG_orgName`
-   `SFDX_CLIENT_ID`
-   `SFDX_HUB_KEY`

See the below entries for the values to use with each.

```{important}
Setting the above environment variables negates the need to use the
`cci org connect` command. You can simply run a `cci` command and pass
the `--org orgName` option, where `orgName` corresponds to the name used
in the `CUMULUSCI_ORG_*` environment variable.
```

In the context of GitHub Actions, all of these environment variables
would be declared under the `env` section of a workflow. Below is an
example of what this would look like:

```yaml
env:
    CUMULUSCI_ORG_sandbox:
        {
            "username": "just.in@salesforce.org",
            "instance_url": "https://sfdo--sbxname.my.salesforce.com",
        }
    SFDX_CLIENT_ID: { { $secrets.client_id } }
    SFDX_HUB_KEY: { { $secrets.server_key } }
```

The above assumes that you have `client_id` and `server_key` setup in
your GitHub [encrypted
secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets)

Note that the value of the `server_key` environment variable is the
content of the file `server.key`, which was created as part of your
Connected App setup. The key is in PEM format.

#### `CUMULUSCI_ORG_orgName`

The name of this environment variable defines what name to use for the
value of the `--org` option. For example, a value of
`CUMULUSCI_ORG_mySandbox` would mean you use `--org mySandbox` to use
this org in a `cci` command.

Set this variable equal to the following json string:

```JSON
{
    "username": "USERNAME",
    "instance_url": "INSTANCE_URL"
}
```

-   `USERNAME` - The username of the user who will login to the target
    org.
-   `INSTANCE_URL` - The instance URL for the org. Should begin with the
    `https://` schema.

You can see an example of setting this environment variable in a GitHub
actions workflow in our [demo
repository](https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI-CI-Demo/blob/404c5114dac8afd3747963d5abf63be774e61757/.github/workflows/main.yml#L11).

```{admonition} Wizard Note
If the target org's instance URL is instanceless (i.e. does not contain
a segment like cs46 identifying the instance), then for sandboxes it is
also necessary to set `SFDX_AUDIENCE_URL` to
`https://test.salesforce.com"`. This instructs CumulusCI to set the
correct `aud` value in the JWT (which is normally determined from the
instance URL).
```

#### `SFDX_CLIENT_ID`

Set this to your Connected App's client id. This, combined with the
`SFDX_HUB_KEY` variable instructs CumulusCI to authenticate to the org
using the [JWT Bearer
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow.htm##sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow)
instead of the [Web Server
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_web_flow.htm##!).

#### `SFDX_HUB_KEY`

Set this to the private key associated with your Connected App (this is
the contents of your `server.key` file). This combined with the
`SFDX_CLIENT_ID` variable instructs CumulusCI to authenticate to the org
using the [JWT Bearer
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow.htm##sfdx_dev_auth_jwt_flow)
instead of the [Web Server
Flow](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_dev.meta/sfdx_dev/sfdx_dev_auth_web_flow.htm##!).

## Multiple Services of the Same Type

In rare cases a build may need to utilize multiple services of the same
type. To set a specific service as the default for subsequent
tasks/flows run the `cci service default <service_type> <name>` command.
You can run this command again to set a new default service to be used
for the given service type.
